README.md, before:

# Advent of Code 2025 solutions in Swift

[![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-Swift-red.svg)](https://swift.org)

Daily programming puzzles at [Advent of Code](<https://adventofcode.com/>), by
[Eric Wastl](<http://was.tl/>).

## Template 

Based on the [swift-aoc-starter-example](https://github.com/apple/swift-aoc-starter-example/) provided by Apple

### Major changes from the forked template

- Swift 6.2 (Have fun with Sendable Types)
- Swift Testing instead of XCTest

## Challenges

The challenges assume three files (replace 00 with the day of the challenge).

- `Sources/Data/day00.txt`: the input data provided for the challenge
- `Sources/Day00.swift`: the code to solve the challenge
- `Tests/Day00Tests.swift`: any unit tests that you want to include

The Package contains a plug-in to generate these files:

To start a new day's challenge, `cd` to the root directory of the package and run 

```shell
swift package --allow-writing-to-package-directory new-day <day-number>
```

which will create the three files for the day. It may look like a lot to type, but if your shell is correctly set up, history and auto-completien will make this easier.

Alternatively, if you don't want to use the plugin make a copy of these files, updating 00 to the  day number.

In either case, you will need to add the solution to the list of available solutions:

```diff
// Add each new day implementation to this array:
let allChallenges: [any AdventDay] = [
-  Day00()
+  Day00(),
+  Day01(),
]
```

Then implement part 1 and 2. The `AdventOfCode.swift` file controls which challenge
is run with `swift run`. Add your new type to its `allChallenges` array. By default 
it runs the most recent challenge.

The `AdventOfCode.swift` file controls which day's challenge is run
with `swift run`. By default that runs the most recent challenge in the package.

To supply command line arguments use `swift run AdventOfCode`. For example:

```shell
swift run -c release AdventOfCode --benchmark 3
```

builds the binary with full optimizations, and benchmarks the challenge for day 3.

## Formatting and Linting

I'm trying out 2 space indents, enforced by the `.editorconfig` file.

I use Swiftformat so this works for me:

```shell
swiftformat .
```

Commit message:

Revise README for requirements and setup instructions
Updated README to reflect new structure and requirements.

README.md, after:

# Advent of Code 2025 solutions in Swift

[![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-Swift-red.svg)](https://swift.org)

Daily programming puzzles at [Advent of Code](<https://adventofcode.com/>), by
[Eric Wastl](<http://was.tl/>).

## Requirements
- Swift 6.2

## Set up for challenges

The challenges assume three files (replace 00 with the day of the challenge).

- `Sources/Data/day00.txt`: the input data provided for the challenge
- `Sources/Day00.swift`: the code to solve the challenge
- `Tests/Day00Tests.swift`: any unit tests that you want to include

The Package contains a plug-in to generate these files:

To start a new day's challenge, `cd` to the root directory of the package and run 

```shell
swift package --allow-writing-to-package-directory new-day <day-number>
```

which will create the three files for the day. It may look like a lot to type, but if your shell is correctly set up, history and auto-completien will make this easier.

Alternatively, if you don't want to use the plugin make a copy of these files, updating 00 to the  day number.

In either case, you will need to add the solution to the list of available solutions:

```diff
// Add each new day implementation to this array:
let allChallenges: [any AdventDay] = [
-  Day00()
+  Day00(),
+  Day01(),
]
```

Then implement part 1 and 2. The `AdventOfCode.swift` file controls which challenge
is run with `swift run`. Add your new type to its `allChallenges` array. By default 
it runs the most recent challenge.

The `AdventOfCode.swift` file controls which day's challenge is run
with `swift run`. By default that runs the most recent challenge in the package.

To supply command line arguments use `swift run AdventOfCode`. For example:

```shell
swift run -c release AdventOfCode --benchmark 3
```

builds the binary with full optimizations, and benchmarks the challenge for day 3.

## Input Files
The creator of Advent of Code requests that personal input files are not added to repositories, so they need to  be added manually.

The input files should be added to the `Sources/Data/` folder named Day<XX>.txt.

## Formatting and Linting

I'm trying out 2 space indents, enforced by the `.editorconfig` file.

I use Swiftformat so this works for me:

```shell
swiftformat .
```

## Template 

Based on the [swift-aoc-starter-example](https://github.com/apple/swift-aoc-starter-example/) provided by Apple

### Major changes from the forked template

- Swift 6.2 (Have fun with Sendable Types)
- Swift Testing instead of XCTest
